My proposed study will attempt to measure the effect of repeated flight price checking on the change in those prices over time.
I am curious whether airlines (e.g. United), flight aggregators (e.g. Google flights), and travel sites (e.g. Expedia) somehow gather customer information and usage history to alter the prices they offer on the routes and times customers have searched for in the past. There have long been suspicions that this practice occurs through internet cookie gathering, though these parties deny they do this, instead claiming that the perceived changes in prices are simply human misinterpretation of their complex pricing algorithms. 
The outcome of interest in this experiment will be the relative change in price of a flight of interest (a particular flight route on a particular day and time), measured by the experimenter. The treatment of interest involves a large number of study design choices, involving the treatment style, websites used, types of flights chosen, and level of care taken to remove all potential threats to validity. The treatment of interest could be a single check of a particular flight price before outcome or repeated checks over time. The websites could be any of the three types mentioned above. The flights could be local, national, or international; at a standardized day of the week and time or a range of days and times; and on a single or multiple airlines. I could try to find dozens of people (with different IP addresses and WIFI networks) to help run the study to avoid any unusual searching behavior on my part, or accept that the ease of running the experiment with little outside aid may confuse/tip-off/disable/dampen any algorithm built to shift prices.
My prior beliefs about the relative importance of these choices are as follows. I think that the particular airports have no effect on any potential effect, so I will allow for some random (or even minimally biasing) variability in treatment assignment by airport. I do not think it would be worth the effort to go through extreme behavior/pattern masking procedures, so I will stick with running all but some initial control group checks myself. I think the particular routes only have an effect in their relative lengths, and that the difficulty of successfully controlling for widely varying differences in flight length is not worth the benefit of searching for the full range of effect-length interactions, so I will limit my search to domestic flights. I think flight aggregators have the least likelihood of any effect, so I will not consider them. I think the different travel websites may have different effects, so I will design in a way that allows for testing within each site. I think the airlines may also have varying effects, so I will design in a way that allows for the same. While I could imagine that the travel sites allow for the airlines themselves to create an effect within the travel sites, I think this is unlikely, so I will not combine the testing within airlines to include price changes observed on travel sites. I think the measurement could suffer from differing dates and times, so I will limit those factors.
In order to keep the study manageable, I have decided on the following. All flights will be limited to the basic fares of nonstop routes run by United, Delta, and American Airlines. The airports will be picked from a geographically dispersed list: SEA, SFO, LAX, DEN, DFW, ORD, ATL, BOS, and LGA. All of these airports are hubs of at least one of the three airlines of interest, and have traffic from all three. The time considered will be between 7am and 3pm on Friday, February 7th, far enough away so that flights will not likely sell out. The websites used will be (and will be blocked on) official airline websites, as well as three independent travel sites (Expedia, Booking, and TripAdvisor). 

I will limit the study to a control and only one type of treatment. The control will be split into halves. One will be a second experimenter located far away searching for half of the initial flight prices once. The other half of the control will be similar (same day, same single check of each price) but will be done myself, using Google Chrome’s Incognito Mode, which blocks cookies from being created. This split will allow for post-hoc analysis of any difference between the halves, and because I do not think any interaction effect exists between these halves and the particular airline or travel website used, I can combine across the latter to give more power to this analysis. 
I will randomly order a list of each route and airline combination. Using complete random assignment, I will assign 1/6 to each of the three airline websites and 1/6 to each of the three travel websites. Finally, using complete random assignment, I will take each of the six equally sized groups and randomly assign 50% to potential treatment, 25% to potential control by me, and 25% to potential control by a family member. The exact flight chosen will be the earliest flight within the time of interest that fits the criteria (e.g. first flight on United.com from Denver to Los Angeles between 7am and 3pm, first Delta flight on booking.com from…). Not each combination exists (especially not within the time periods of interest), and if this is the case for a combination, that selection will be skipped and the next will be looked for, effectively resulting in restricted randomization. This will continue until, for each given airline or travel website, 6 treatment units and 3 units of each type of control have their price recoded alongside the details of the particular flight chosen. Thus 36 treatment units and 36 control units will be recorded in total.
The treatment will be repeated checking (every 4 or so days) of each flight in the treatment group during the study period. During each check, I will search for flights with the intended origin and destination on the intended day on the appropriate website, then limit my search to non-stop flights and to the time period of interest on the results page. When I find the particular flight used, I will select the flight as though I was actually going to book it, stopping before I enter any personal information and exiting the page.
The outcome measure will be percentage change in price from initial check to final check. The primary analysis will look for an overall effect, pooling first across control types, then calculating a difference in means between treatment and controls in each group of 12 flights, and finally averaging across airline and travel websites (N=72, alpha = 0.05). Secondary analyses will be done separated by airline websites vs travel websites (N=36 each, alpha = 0.025), separated by particular websites (N=12 each, alpha = 0.0083), and finally between the two control groups pooled across websites (N=36, alpha = 0.05). No attempt will be made to measure effects separated by flight length or particular airports used. 
